[All Hosts] (yo office) new overview of the Yeoman generator tool (#3299)
OfficeDev/office-js-docs-pr: docs/develop/yeoman-generator-overview.md

---
title: Create Office Add-in projects with the Yeoman Generator
description: Learn how to create Office Add-in projects with the Yeoman generator for Office Add-ins.
ms.date: 03/11/2022
ms.localizationpriority: high
---

# Create Office Add-in projects with the Yeoman Generator

The Yeoman Generator for Office Add-ins (also called "Yo Office") is an interactive Node.js-based command line tool that creates Office Add-in development projects. We recommend that you use this tool to create add-in projects except when you want the server-side code of the add-in to be in a .NET-based language (such as C# or VB.Net) or you want the add-in hosted in Internet Information Server (IIS). In either of the latter two situations, [use Visual Studio to create the add-in](develop-add-ins-visual-studio.md).

> The projects that tool creates have the following characteristics:

Author: ```suggestion
The projects that the tool creates have the following characteristics:
```

- By default, all dependencies are installed by the tool, but you can postpone the installation with a command line argument.
- They include a complete add-in manifest.
- They have a "Hello World"-level add-in that can be run as soon as the tool has finished.
- They include a polyfill and a transpiler that is configured to transpile TypeScript, and recent versions of JavaScript, to ES5 JavaScript. These features ensure that the add-in is supported in all browser runtimes that Office Add-ins might run in, including Internet Explorer.

> [!TIP]
> If you want to deviate from these choices significantly, such as using a different task runner or a different server, we recommend that when you run the tool you take the option described in [Manifest-only option](#manifest-only-option).

## Install the generator

[!include[Set up requirements](../includes/set-up-dev-environment-beforehand.md)]
[!include[Yeoman generator prerequisites](../includes/quickstart-yo-prerequisites.md)]

## Use the tool

Start the tool with the following command in a system prompt (not a bash window):

```command&nbsp;line
yo office 
```

> A lot needs to load, so it may take 20 seconds before the tool starts. The tool asks you a series of questions. For some, you just type an answer to the prompt. For others, you're given a list of possible answers. If given a list, select one using the arrow keys, then select the Enter key.

Reviewer: You specifically point out that the user is using the keyboard by referring to the arrow keys. So, since you're referring to using keyboard only, we can use "press". Otherwise, just say "If given a list, select one and choose Enter." So you're not referring to the keyboard. You're right, there are multiple ways to interact with the UI, so we should remove mention of both arrow keys and pressing enter.

The first question asks you to choose between six types of projects. The options are:

- **Office Add-in Task Pane project**
- **Office Add-in Task Pane project using Angular framework**
- **Office Add-in Task Pane project using React framework**
- **Office Add-in project supporting single sign-on**
- **Office Add-in project containing the manifest only**
- **Excel Custom Functions Add-in project**

![Screenshot showing the prompt for project type, and the possible answers, in the Yeoman generator.](../images/yo-office-project-type-prompt.png)

> [!NOTE]

> > The option **Office Add-in project supporting single sign-on** produces a project that can be used to see how single sign-on works in an add-in. The project cannot be used as the basis of a production add-in. To get an SSO-enabled project that can be basis of a production add-in, see the "Complete" version of [one of the SSO samples in our samples repo](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Office-Add-in-samples/tree/main/Samples/auth).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> The **Office Add-in Task Pane project supporting single sign-on** option produces a project that can be used to see how single sign-on (SSO) works in an add-in. The project can't be used as the basis of a production add-in. To get an SSO-enabled project that can be a basis of a production add-in, see the "Complete" version of [one of the SSO samples in our samples repo](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Office-Add-in-samples/tree/main/Samples/auth).
```

>

> > The option **Office Add-in project containing the manifest only** produces a project that contains a basic add-in manifest and minimal scaffolding. For more information about the option, see [Manifest-only option](#manifest-only-option).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> The **Office Add-in project containing the manifest only** option produces a project that contains a basic add-in manifest and minimal scaffolding. For more information about the option, see [Manifest-only option](#manifest-only-option).
```

> The next question asks you to choose between TypeScript and JavaScript. (This question is skipped if you take the manifest-only option for the preceding question.)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The next question asks you to choose between **TypeScript** and **JavaScript**. (This question is skipped if you chose the manifest-only option in the preceding question.)
```

![Screenshot showing that the user chose "Office Add-in Task Pane project" to the preceding question and shows the prompt for language, and the possible answers, TypeScript and JavaScript, in the Yeoman generator.](../images/yo-office-language-prompt.png)

You're then prompted to give the add-in a name. The name you specify will be used in the add-in's manifest, but you can change it later.

![Screenshot showing that the user chose TypeScript to the previous question and shows the prompt for the add-in name in the Yeoman generator.](../images/yo-office-name-prompt.png)

> You're then prompted to choose which Office application the add-in should run in. There are six possible applications to choose from; Excel, OneNote, Outlook, PowerPoint, Project, and Word. You must choose just one, but if you want the add-in to be runnable in more than one of the Office applications, you can change the manifest later to support the ones that you don't choose here. The exception is Outlook. A manifest that supports Outlook cannot support any other Office application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You're then prompted to choose which Office application the add-in should run in. There are six possible applications to choose from: **Excel**, **OneNote**, **Outlook**, **PowerPoint**, **Project**, and **Word**. You must choose just one, but if you want the add-in to be runnable in more than one of the Office applications, you can change the manifest later to support the ones that you don't choose here. The exception is Outlook. A manifest that supports Outlook cannot support any other Office application.
```

> [!TIP]
> If you want to create the scaffolding of an Office Add-in project, but postpone the installation of the dependencies, add the `--skip-install` option to the `yo office` command. The following code is an example.
>
> ```command&nbsp;line
> yo office --skip-install
> ```
>
> When you're ready to install the dependencies, navigate to the root folder of the project in a command prompt and enter `npm install`.

## Manifest-only option

This option creates only a manifest for an add-in. The resulting project doesn't have a Hello World add-in, any of the scripts, or any of the dependencies. Use this option in the following scenarios:

- You want to use different tools from the ones a Yeoman generator project installs and configures by default. For example, you want to use a different bundler, transpiler, task runner, or development server.
- You want to use a web application development framework, other than Angular or React, such as Vue.

See [Use Vue to build an Excel task pane add-in](../quickstarts/excel-quickstart-vue.md) for an example of using the generator with the manifest-only option.

## Use command line parameters

> You can also add parameters to the `yo office` command. The two most common are the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also add parameters to the `yo office` command. The two most common are:
```

- `yo office --details`: This will output brief help about all of the other command line parameters.
- `yo office --skip-install`: This will prevent the generator from installing the dependencies.

For detailed reference about the command line parameters, see the readme for the generator at [Yeoman generator for Office Add-ins](https://github.com/officedev/generator-office).

## Troubleshooting

> If you encounter problems using the tool, your first step should be to reinstall it to be sure that you have the latest version. If doing so doesn't fix the problem, search the [issues of the GitHub repo for the tool](https://github.com/OfficeDev/generator-office/issues) to see if anyone else has encountered the same problem and found a solution. If no one has, [create a new issue](https://github.com/OfficeDev/generator-office/issues/new?assignees=&labels=needs+triage&template=bug_report.md&title=).

Reviewer 2: Consider linking back to https://review.docs.microsoft.com/en-us/office/dev/add-ins/develop/yeoman-generator-overview?branch=pr-en-us-3299#install-the-generator for guidance on reinstalling the tool.

Author: ```suggestion
If you encounter problems using the tool, your first step should be to reinstall it to be sure that you have the latest version. (See [Install the generator](#install-the-generator) for details.) If doing so doesn't fix the problem, search the [issues of the GitHub repo for the tool](https://github.com/OfficeDev/generator-office/issues) to see if anyone else has encountered the same problem and found a solution. If no one has, [create a new issue](https://github.com/OfficeDev/generator-office/issues/new?assignees=&labels=needs+triage&template=bug_report.md&title=).
```
